# Eco Sustainable
Let's contribute together to a clean and healthy environment.

The project is submitted to the hackathon **Ink and Metal | STEM Olympics**.


## Inspiration
To survive on this planet we need clean air and clean water to stay healthy and clothes to keep warm when it is cold. For years, the means to provide these requirements has been at the expense of polluting both the air and the water, and steps have to be taken to reduce or eliminate what is collectively known as ‘greenhouse gases.

Lasting climate solutions hinge on innovative policies – Market-based approaches like carbon pricing are a cornerstone of practical, cost-effective climate policy. Cutting carbon emissions takes smart policies, innovative technologies, and simple steps to shrink our own carbon footprint.


## What it does
We want to provide a platform with a mandate to provide guidance to its users on environmental issues; and general guidance for the direction and coordination of environmental programs.

The platform promotes transformative renewable waste technologies and creative ideas that facilitate cutting carbon efficiency and climate change adaption. The platform provides directions on environmental sustainability with the following innovatory initiatives that implement meaningful climate solutions.

Recycling waste, Air quality, Clean Water, Wildlife, Plantation, and Ecosystem.


## How we built it
We built it using Tensorflow, Google Cloud, Dialogflow, and Streamlit(For the UI and Hosting). Also, Github helped us a lot in collaborating together.


## Waste Image Classification
Image classifier recognizes the type of waste and helps you to recycle it. It's built using TensorFlow and Keras.


## Carbon footprint calculator
A carbon footprint is the total amount of greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide and methane) that are generated by our actions. This Calculator would help you calculate it so you can reduce your carbon footprint.


## Build With
- HTML
- CSS
- Java Script
- Python
- Tensorflow
- Machine Learning
- Convolutional Neural Networks
- Google Cloud
- Design


## Challenges we ran into
The main problem we faced was making equations for the Carbon Footprint Calculator. It was very hard to find information regarding it then make it into a calculator with good looking UI.


## What we learned
We learned a lot about reducing our carbon footprint for the betterment of our environment. We also learned a lot about minimizing the waste we produce and recycling the used goods. Our project needed a lot of research which also enhanced our analytical and scientific skills. It helped us to enhance our knowledge and coding skills.
